# CIND820-Capstone-Project-Forecasting-Hotel-Booking-Demand-with-a-Machine-Learning-Model
                                                                         Abstract
Now a days online hotel booking sector is suffering from loss in revenue. One of the major factors could be the booking cancelations done by the customers abruptly. Taking a clue from this pattern, I decided to investigate- who cancels the reservation, and can the cancellations have predicted in advance. In this project, we aim to forecast the likelihood of a hotel booking being canceled based on various parameters, as well as likelihood of receiving a special service request from customers based on different factors. I plan to use historical reservation data for two different category hotels for this project. The data sets contain booking information for a city hotel and a resort hotel and includes details such as when the booking was made (Arrival Date of Year), length of stay (Lead Time), the number of children, adults, and/or babies, Market Segment, and the number of available parking spaces, among other things. From this, we will derive customer behavior insights and develop our data model.The goal of the project is to predict customer(s) who are most likely to cancel their reservation, and this will help to forecast the demand for future and help for business decision making. We will also build multiple classification models to forecast the number of bookings using logistic regression, Naïve Bayes classifier, decision tree, and k-Nearest Neighbours. These models will play a pivotal role to detect bookings that are most vulnerable to cancelation. Upon identification, hotel staff can trigger set of marketing promotions like offering complimentary services, discounts, etc., to mitigate the risk of booking termination by the customer(s). I am also planning to employ unsupervised learning models (like K-Means) to analyze the results of each cluster to identify the most profitable clients in our data set based on the booking lead time and the average daily rate.
# H1.csv file contain the information about Resort Hotal
# H2.CSV file contain the information about City Hotal
# descriptive statistics.pynb  is a python file which contain the descriptive statistics about  the hotel data set.
# hotaldataClean1.csv file contain the information about clean data of the hotel
# initial analysis and modeling.ipynb contain the python codes about intial codes of the Project.
# FinalprojectSavitaSeharawat.ipynb contain the final code (data preprocessing, Exploratory Data Analysis, Experimental Design,and Models Implementation and Evaluation )
# FinalprojectSavitaSeharawat.pdf contain the final code (data preprocessing, Exploratory Data Analysis, Experimental Design,and Models Implementation and Evaluation )
